chore(docs): mention air-gapped environment (#544)
aquasecurity/trivy: docs/air-gap.md

# Air-gapped environment

> Trivy can be used under air-gapped environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trivy can be used in air-gapped environments.
```

## Download the vulnerability database

> At first, you need to download the vulnerability database for air-gapped environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At first, you need to download the vulnerability database for use in air-gapped environments.
```

Go to [trivy-db](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-db/releases) and download `trivy-offline.db.tgz` in the latest release.
If you download `trivy-light-offline.db.tgz`, you have to run Trivy with `--light` option.

```
$ wget https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-db/releases/latest/download/trivy-offline.db.tgz
```

## Transfer the DB file into the air-gapped environment
The way of transfer depends on the environment.

```
$ rsync -av -e ssh /path/to/trivy-offline.db.tgz [user]@[host]:dst
```

> ## Put the DB file to Trivy's cache directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Put the DB file in Trivy's cache directory
```

You have to know where to put the DB file. The following command shows the default cache directory.

```
$ ssh user@host
$ trivy -h | grep cache
   --cache-dir value  cache directory (default: "/home/myuser/.cache/trivy") [$TRIVY_CACHE_DIR]
```

> Put the DB file to the cache directory + `/db`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Put the DB file in the cache directory + `/db`.
```

```
$ mkdir -p /home/myuser/.cache/trivy/db
$ cd /home/myuser/.cache/trivy/db
$ mv /path/to/trivy-offline.db.tgz .
```

Then, decompress it.
`trivy-offline.db.tgz` file includes two files, `trivy.db` and `metadata.json`.

```
$ tar xvf trivy-offline.db.tgz
x trivy.db
x metadata.json
$ rm trivy-offline.db.tgz
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In an air-gapped environment it is your responsibility to update the Trivy database on a regular basis, so that the scanner can detect recently-identified vulnerabilities. 

```

## Run Trivy with --skip-update option

> Trivy automatically downloads the latest database file if you don't specify `--skip-update`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an air-gapped environment, specify `--skip-update` so that Trivy doesn't attempt to download the latest database file.
```

```

## Transfer the DB file into the air-gapped environment
The way of transfer depends on the environment.

```
$ rsync -av -e ssh /path/to/trivy-offline.db.tgz [user]@[host]:dst
```

## Put the DB file in Trivy's cache directory
You have to know where to put the DB file. The following command shows the default cache directory.

```
$ ssh user@host
$ trivy -h | grep cache
   --cache-dir value  cache directory (default: "/home/myuser/.cache/trivy") [$TRIVY_CACHE_DIR]
```

Put the DB file in the cache directory + `/db`.

```
$ mkdir -p /home/myuser/.cache/trivy/db
$ cd /home/myuser/.cache/trivy/db
$ mv /path/to/trivy-offline.db.tgz .
```

Then, decompress it.
`trivy-offline.db.tgz` file includes two files, `trivy.db` and `metadata.json`.

```
$ tar xvf trivy-offline.db.tgz
x trivy.db
x metadata.json
$ rm trivy-offline.db.tgz
```

In an air-gapped environment it is your responsibility to update the Trivy database on a regular basis, so that the scanner can detect recently-identified vulnerabilities. 

## Run Trivy with --skip-update option
In an air-gapped environment, specify `--skip-update` so that Trivy doesn't attempt to download the latest database file.

```

> $ trivy image --skip-update alpine:3.12

Reviewer 2: If I am not wrong, after follow these steps the trivy still need to connect to the internet when scan alpine based image because of codes from fanal: https://github.com/aquasecurity/fanal/blob/df25cfa5f9afb2058df3fff450643d6c4e1fcb24/analyzer/command/apk/apk.go#L58-L64

Author: Oh, you're right. We have to ignore the error in air-gapped environment.

Reviewer 2: Or tell user how to setup a mirror server of https://github.com/knqyf263/apkindex-archive.

BTW, the updater job of https://github.com/knqyf263/apkindex-archive has broken and I have create an PR to fix it: https://github.com/knqyf263/apkindex-archive/pull/1
